Frankenstein; or, The Modern Prometheus
by Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley

Letter 1
St. Petersburgh, Dec. 11th, 17—

TO Mrs. Saville, England.

You will rejoice to hear that no disaster has accompanied the commencement
of an enterprise which you have regarded with such evil forebodings. I arrived
here yesterday; and my first task is to assure my dear sister of my welfare
and increasing confidence in the success of my undertaking.

I am already far north of London; and as I walk in the streets of Petersburgh,
I feel a cold northern breeze play upon my cheeks, which braces my nerves,
and fills me with delight. Do you understand this feeling? This breeze,
which has travelled from the regions towards which I am advancing, gives me
a foretaste of those icy climes. Inspirited by this wind of promise, my
daydreams become more fervent and vivid.

Letter 2 (excerpt)
Archangel, 28th March, 17—

It is now several months since I have quit the sight of land, and I have
beheld only the icy and desolate sea. Yet my courage does not fail. The
presence of danger adds a charm to my labours, and I feel as if my soul
were mastering the very elements themselves.

Chapter 1 (excerpt)

I am by birth a Genevese; and my family is one of the most distinguished
of that republic. My ancestors had been for many years counsellors and
syndics; and my father had filled several public situations with honour
and reputation. He was respected by all who knew him, for his integrity
and indefatigable attention to public business. He passed his younger days
perpetually occupied by the affairs of his country; and it was not until
the decline of life that he thought of marrying, and bestowing on the state
sons who might carry his virtues and talents down to posterity.

My mother was a woman of great sensibility and kindness. Her tender cares
and my father's benevolent smile are my earliest recollections. Our family
home, on the shores of the lake, was the scene of my childhood's joys,
and it was there that my imagination first opened to the majesty of nature
and the mysteries of human feeling.

